---
title: ­­­Customer payment insights (Preview)
---

Overview
========

Organizations often find it challenging to predict when a customer will pay
their invoices. This lack of insight leads to less accurate cash flow forecasts,
collections processes are started too late, and orders released to customers who
may default on their payment. Customer payment insights (preview) enable
organizations to predict when an invoice will be paid and helps organizations to
create optimization strategies that improve the probability of being paid on
time.

Predictions
===========

Payment predictions will enable organizations to improve their business
processes by helping:

-   to easily identify the invoices that are predicted to be paid late

-   to take appropriate measures to improve chances of getting paid on time

Customer payment insights (preview) uses machine learning to predict when a
customer will pay for an invoice. It learns from historical invoices, payments
and customer data and then creates a machine learning model that is used to
predict when an invoice will be paid by a customer.

For each open invoice, Customer payment insights (preview) predicts three
payment probabilities:

1.  Probability of payment being made on time (within the invoice due date)

2.  Probability of payment being made within the 30 days of the invoice due date

3.  Probability of payment being made beyond the 30 days of the invoice due date

The probability of payments can be viewed in the prediction section.

![](media/e0f9db0392b03048ff8531f3f270fe6f.png)

![](media/e7fea8c04b6dac5dffe44cfdfaa8a126.png)

Also, each invoice is assigned a winning probability of payment using one of the
three predicted payment probabilities buckets defined above. The bucket with the
highest probability of payment is the winning bucket.

For example, let’s assume for an invoice the prediction shows a 71% probability
the invoice will be paid on time, 13% probability the invoice will be paid
within 30 days of due date and 16% probability the invoice will be paid beyond
30 days of due date. The highest probability shows that the invoice will be in
the on time bucket, hence the invoice will be tagged with the probability of
being paid on time.

![](media/6db0de2b13f4a977fe401a4a4651afb7.png)

[./media/image4.png](./media/image4.png)
========================================

Optimization strategies

In addition to payment predictions, the Customer Payment Insights (preview) can
use optimization strategies to improve the chances of getting paid on time. It
lets organizations do “What-if” analysis by allowing users to adjust invoice and
customer parameters and then compare the corresponding effect on the probability
of receiving payment on invoices on time.

For example, an organization may want to evaluate the effect of updating the
cash discount on invoices on the probability of receiving the payment on time.
When the invoices are optimized to use the new discount, the users can review
the effect of applying the discount on the invoice. If the cost of applying the
discount is minimal when compared to the benefit of collecting the payment on
time, the organization may choose to apply the selected discount to all future
open orders.

Note: Currently only discount is available as an optimization strategy for the
Customer payment insights (preview).

![](media/2394b4c283df283351734b4b24d956b6.png)

How to get Customer payment insights (preview)
==============================================

Please email following \<**alias**\> if you are interested in trying Customer
payment insights (preview).

Privacy Notice
==============

Previews store customer data in the United States. In addition, previews (1) may
utilize less privacy and security measures than the Dynamics 365 for Finance and
Operations service, (2) are not included in the service level agreement for this
service, (3) should not be used to process personal data or other data that is
subject to legal or regulatory compliance requirements, and (4) has limited
support.
