Hiring Process Activities in Attract
=====================

Activities can be added as part of the hiring process on a job in Attract.
Activities can be added to a Process template or added to the hiring process
within the job. When a job is defined, a process template is selected and the
activities contained in the template are applied to the job. If a template is
not selected, the Default template will be used. The hiring process can also be
modified on the job after the template is applied. This topic describes the
various activity types that can be used in the hiring process in Attract.

Note: Process templates are available with the Comprehensive Hiring Add-on.

**Prospect activity**

The prospect activity controls whether Prospects can be added to a job or not.
By default, Prospects can be added to a job. To turn this off, change the
**Enable prospects** toggle to Off. When the Prospect activity is enabled, the
user can choose to allow Hiring managers to add and view prospects. Once this is
on, the Prospect tab will be displayed within the Job.

**Application Activity**
------------------------

The Application activity is required in the hiring process template. If you want
to send an email to a candidate at the time the candidate submits her or his
application or is added to the application stage, set the **Send mail to
candidate** toggle to On.

**Scheduler Activity**

The **Scheduler Activity** is an optional activity. This activity has two
components; **Candidate availability** and **Schedule**. The **Candidate
availability** component provides the option to request a candidate’s
availability via email. The **Schedule** component provides the ability to
schedule interviews with the candidate and the hiring team. Within the Scheduler
activity the following options are configurable: **Request candidate
availability**, **Online meeting** options, and **Send mail to candidate**.

To send an email to the candidate to request their availability, set the
**Request candidate availability** option to On. If this is set to Off this
option will not display within the hiring process on the job.

To live stream or have a conference call via Skype for Business set the **Online
meeting** option to Skype for Business. This will insert the ‘Join Skype
Meeting’ in the interview meeting request that is sent to the interviewers.

To send an email to the candidate to finalize the schedule, set the **Send mail
to candidate option** to On. If this is set to Off, the candidate will get the
interview schedule when they login to the candidate portal.

**Feedback Activity**

The **Feedback** activity is an optional activity. This activity provides an
option for participants to enter a recommendation on an applicant as well as
enter in any feedback comments that they have. Marking the ‘Inherit feedback
participants from Hiring Team’ on, will default the Recruiter, HM, and
Interviewers in the feedback activity. Organizations can choose to allow
interviewers to see the feedback of others individuals prior to submitting their
own. Also, organizations can allow interviewers to edit their feedback after
their first submission.

**Interview Activity**

The **Interview Activity** is an optional activity. This activity has three
components; **Candidate availability, Schedule** and **Feedback**. The
**Candidate availability** component provides the option to request a
candidate’s availability via email. The **Schedule** component provides the
ability to schedule interviews with the candidate and the hiring team. Within
the Scheduler activity the following options are configurable: **Request
candidate availability**, **Online meeting** options, and **Send mail to
candidate**.

To send an email to the candidate to request their availability, set the
**Request candidate availability** option to On. If this is set to Off this
option will not display within the hiring process on the job.

To live stream or have a conference call via Skype for Business set the **Online
meeting** option to Skype for Business. This will insert the ‘Join Skype
Meeting’ in the interview meeting request.

To send an email to the candidate to finalize the schedule, set the **Send mail
to candidate option** to On. If this is set to Off, the candidate will get the
interview schedule when they login to the candidate portal.

The **feedback** component provides an option for individuals to enter a
recommendation on an applicant as well as enter in any feedback comments that
they have. Marking the ‘Inherit feedback participants from Hiring Team’ on, will
default the Recruiter, HM, and Interviewers in the feedback activity.
Organizations can choose to allow interviewers to see the feedback of others
individuals prior to submitting their own. Also, organizations can allow
interviewers to edit their feedback after their first submission.

**PowerApps Activity**

The PowerApps activity provides an option to embed a PowerApp in the hiring
process. The PowerApp can be required for All applicants, Internal Applicants,
External applicants or None. If the PowerApp is set to be required, then
PowerApp must be completed before the stage can be advanced. If the activity is
not required, then the PowerApp is an optional step and the stage can be
advanced without the PowerApp needing to be completed.

A PowerApp ID is required to be able to save the activity to the hiring process.
The PowerApps ID can be found at <https://web.powerapps.com> and selecting Apps
and then Details.

If you select to **Allow adding participants for this activity**, additional
contributors can be added for an application that is using this activity. For
example: An organization created PowerApp that is a library of interview
questions for technical roles. The organization is hiring a new Software
developer. They have added this PowerApp activity to their hiring process for
the Software developer role. When the ‘Allow adding participants’ option is on,
the recruiter or hiring manager can view an applicant for the Software Developer
role and choose to add individuals to view the PowerApp that they created with
the library of interview questions.


[!Note] The PowerApps activity is only available with the Comprehensive Hiring
Add-On

**YouTube Activity**

The **YouTube** activity allows you to add the sharing of a video to your hiring
process. The YouTube video URL is required to save the activity to the hiring
process. Similarly, to the PowerApps activity you can allow adding participants
to this activity. (See example above.) If you select ‘Show only to candidate’
the video will only display in the candidate experience and will not show in the
hiring process within Attract.

[!Note] The YouTube activity is only available with the Comprehensive Hiring
Add-On


**Web Content Activity**

The **Web content** activity allows you to embed a URL with content into the
hiring process. The URL is required to save the activity to the hiring process.
Similarly, to the PowerApps activity you can allow adding participants to this
activity. (See the PowerApps example above.) If you select ‘Show only to
candidate’ the content will only display in the candidate experience and will
not show in the hiring process within Attract. You can also select the content
size to display.

[!Note]  The Web Content activity is only available with the Comprehensive Hiring
Add-On


**Microsoft Forms Activity**

The **Microsoft Forms** activity allows you to embed a Microsoft Form into your
hiring process. Microsoft Forms allow you to create quizzes, surveys and polls.
The Microsoft forms URL is required to save the activity to the hiring
process**.** Similarly, to the PowerApps activity you can allow adding
participants to this activity. (See the PowerApps example above.) If you select
‘Show only to candidate’ the content will only display in the candidate
experience and will not show in the hiring process within Attract.

Within Microsoft Forms authors can toggle their settings to allow users outside
of their organization to respond to their survey or quiz. In this case, users
will be submitting responses anonymously. If you want to see who has filled out
your survey or quiz, you can require respondents to fill in their names as part
of your questionnaire.

[!Note] The Microsoft Forms activity is only available with the Comprehensive
Hiring Add-On
