Outbound process
================

This topic provides information about the outbound processes in the Inventory
management module.

Output orders
-------------

Output orders are used to link the sales and transfer order lines with the
outbound picking processes using picking lists.

Transaction status (on order)

![](media/76015f63b360e9bfbf5d08635ace250f.png)

When picking lists are generated from either sales or transfer orders, output
orders and shipments will be automatically created. A picking list will have a
one-to-one relationship with a shipment. The transfers order shipment or the
sales order packing slip can be processed from the shipment.

You can set up outbound rules to determine how you want the program to handle
the outbound process. You can use these rules to control the shipment process,
in particular, at which stage in the process you can send a shipment. The
following settings define how the outbound processes are handled.

Picking route status for sales and transfer orders 
---------------------------------------------------

**Account receivable \> Setup \> Account receivable parameters \> Updates \>
Picking route status.**

![](media/abdf8c50fd334c002282dd2bf955a1de.png)

If the field is set to **Completed**, the picking process will take place
automatically as part of the picking list generation process. If the field is
set to **Activated**, the picking list lines will need to be updated manually.

The same setup applies for transfer orders. You find **Picking route status**
under

**Inventory management \> Setup \> Inventory and warehouse management parameters
\> Transport \> Picking route status.**

![](media/e23ce15bd0c09776fa808e6c32bf0cf8.png)

End output inventory orders
---------------------------

**Inventory management \> Setup \> Inventory and warehouse management parameters
\> General \> End output inventory orders.**

![](media/86fa51876cdddf8ab803e6f06698bf93.png)

When some items in the inventory canâ€™t be picked as part of the picking list
process. For example, a warehouse worker reduces the quantities on picking lines
and processes the picking list, the remaining unpicked quantities can either be
reported back to the order level (Parameter set to Yes) or kept as an open
output order quantity (Parameter set to No), and thereby remain as released to
the warehouse and need to be added to a new picking list as part of the **Open
output order** functionality.

![](media/0f4645d7e7e791e8e080a242411558d1.png)

![](media/aa3f050c07ab0f0aa18ae2814ff0ad98.png)

Reduce quantity
---------------

The third parameter which can be used as part of the picking list generation
process is the **Reduce quantity** parameter. This setup goes together with the
**Reservation** setting, which will trigger a reservation process as part of the
release to the warehouse.

![](media/3faaaf09a51352fa4f7c81b95cfd86f4.png)

Example of an outbound process for a sales order
------------------------------------------------

Imagine there a sales order for two items. During the picking list generation,
it has been enabled to only release and thereby create picking lines for the
available inventory on-hand by selecting the **Reduce quantity** parameter and
the picking must be reported via a picking list registration process (**Picking
route status** = Activated).

As part of the generation of the picking list, the inventory which has not
already been reserved will be reserved during the picking list generation. The
unavailable inventory can be either removed from the sales order or released to
the warehouse for outbound processing at a later point in time when inventory is
available for picking.

![](media/b87c5d558c2f4dd531e613309811b7d0.png)

As soon as all the picking lines have been picked on the **Picking list
registration** page, the associated shipment will be completed and the sales
order packing slip process can be initialized based on the picked inventory.

![](media/50553c851ec869b7f3d770213b0c2870.png)
